Now back to the McCarthy Army hearings.
Mr. Jenkins speaking now.
The Secretary understand it.
He may answer now that we'll have a view of it if you're going to be ready.
Yes, it's true, and I'd like to continue on to meet.
That letter of February 16th, two-sided McCarthy, in regard to the arrest case,
I've made public myself because I wanted the American people to know how I felt about the arrest case.
It's a matter of public record, and it's certainly true what the McCarthy just quoted from.
The Secretary of the Constitution is appointed for the Supreme Court.
He hasn't even testified that he never heard the name Perez until after the man Perez was out of the Army.
And he has also testified that he has not yet had his expected challenge report.
And in an effort to expedite these hearings, might it not be better to ask witnesses who get know about the arrest case before he was out of the Army?
If it's relevant to the hearing, and who do know about the expected challenge report, the respect of what it says in this particular situation?
Sure, they're not believed in questions dealing with the expected general's report, but he's properly at this time, and as much as the report is not complete, as I have been advised by the Secretary.
I haven't asked those questions yet, but if there are people who know these things, the Secretary says he doesn't know that he did not hear the name of Major Perez.
Until after he was out of the Army, presumably there will be witnesses called later who do know more about it.
And I'm just simply raising this point in an effort to expedite these hearings.
I don't have to, I don't have to.
I'm just going to say, I don't have to be the judge of the court general as thoroughly from Major with all the details of this case.
I'm sorry, I made this mistake.
Come, it's a good time to be safe to hear the issue.
The Secretary and the Saddam's accused of a target committee of using undue influence to get preferential treatment for G. David Shines.
The maids or the demates of the Perez case shed no light on whatever on that issue as I see it.
Counter charges are made by Senator McCarthy's committee against Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams in which among other things it's charged that they sought to discredit this committee.
Number one, number two that they sought a cessation of investigating committees, investigation of court mamas.
Number three, that they sought to stop Senator McCarthy and his committee from investigating the machinery of the Army and exposing its lack of efficiency in bringing about an expeditious investigation of the infiltration of Communists in the Army.
Frankly, I see fail to see where the Perez case in any respect sheds any light on those issues.
Except this is the one and this is the Senator in part in the interruptions.
It might be proper to infarge this witness with respect to the major Perez case in order to elicit from the witness his idea of what constitutes a subversive, a bad security risk, or what constitutes such a given state of fact as would justify the suspicion of an employee from the Army.
Mr. Chairman, one of these one of the very important issues here is whether or not this report and Mr. Conn, Mr. at least charges against Mr. Conn, Mr. Kern, myself from WEDD, in order to pull up the work of the committee to protect those who in turn are given special considerations on known communists.
And once I can run about and develop that, requesting your time, that's the issue. That's one of the all important issues.
Mr. Chairman, I agree with Senator McCarthy a moment ago that that question was proper and should be answered. It went to the policy and attitude of the Secretary of the Army as to going into details of the Perez case that has no proper place in this procedure.
I do not intend to be detailed with the Perez case. But let me make my position clear again, I think, I don't like the repetitious, but I am no intention going into the fact of the Perez case.
I do want to go into this question. The question of why the attack was launched against Mr. Conn did it have any connection with attempts to cover up and protect those who mishandled or gave special consideration to Perez.
It goes to move of in this case. I think it's all important. If I am for, I'm recruited from going into this. Then it's only logical that I cannot go into the motives surrounding the attacks made in connection with our attempts to get those who covered up to come in and support Mama.
Mr. Chairman, I think all members of the committee and Council should have pretty clearly before it. What we consider relevant in your main and proper question.
I don't have a question. Anyone else deal with the matter of more than the specific charges before it.
Mr. Farahs, they go in to try and determine the secretary's attitude to the guilt or innocence of any of the individuals. They are improper because we're not trying at this time to determine the guilt or innocence of any of the people.
I agree with the secretary. I think the senator has stated he didn't tend to go into that.
The senator has stated that he was protecting somebody or covering somebody up for something of that time. I want to make it clear to this committee that I'm not covering up any time.
I believe you stated Mr. Secretary that you had never heard about the President's case before he came back to the state of the resident of Black.
That you received a communication with Mr. Adams in regard to the President's case when you were in the east.
In the forest? Well, any place before you return.
I think it was a memorandum of when he had a healing stop in California in the middle of the night on the way back to Washington. That's the first time he heard of it.
He was out of the army for that time. You received a memorandum on the press case before you make your statement to the President.
I had a Miss memorandum on the press case which I looked correctly at on the plane before I got on. But I had no real working knowledge of the press case.
Does that memorandum tell you who ordered his honorable discharge?
No. You sure as far as I can remember. As a matter of fact, I didn't have really a contact. I just studied a memorandum.
I was within the middle of the night when it came on board and we got in here the next morning. I didn't like any particular attempt to measure out myself with the press case.
I had a return to Washington. As soon as I got back here, then I made a funny my business to get into it and find out what it transpired.
Did you study the memorandum? You can make it.
I don't think I studied the memorandum. I started talking with the people who knew about the case because it seemed to be some of a matter of public interest.
I wanted to familiarize myself. Secretary did not let memorandum tell you who was responsible for the honorable discharge.
I don't recall what it is. Do you have that memorandum?
I don't think we do. Do you mean you didn't say it? I don't think I did.
I don't know. Did you find that? We'll find out. Yes, I'm soon to be known.
That's the afternoon. You don't recall what was in the memorandum at all. I'm not asking you what was in it. I'm asking if you recall what was it.
This is the first I heard of the arrest case. I don't remember even whether I fully worth the memorandum.
But I know that as soon as I got back and landed at these questions where I asked me which have been referred to, then I made it my business to get into the arrest case.
I ordered the inspector general to get on it and get me the unmistakable fact about it as soon as he put it.
No, that was quite some time ago. Yes, sir. That was probably around the 10th and 12th of February.
Now, to this time, Mr. Secretary, have you discovered who was responsible for the honorable discharge?
Yes, sir. I have asked the inspector general to give me the report, Senator. For answer the questions. No, I don't know who was responsible.
You don't know who was responsible? You said you got into it. That's right.
The first logical thing you would do was to be to find out who was responsible for the honorable discharge.
The logical thing for me to do was to get the inspector general to make a complete report, or me on the arrest case, and then know exactly so far as the facts could be established as to who had in any way that at any point touched the arrest case.
If there is one not information available, if there is any delirious election of duty, in connection with the arrest case, I can assure you it will be properly dealt with.
You said you turned to the people who knew about the arrest case you came back. That's right. Did you know the asking a simple question who ordered an honorable discharge for this man?
I was a... As I recall it was a routine action in the Aged and General's Office, which handled thousands of cases per day.
Did you know the answer? The friend of the fellow owner, Mr. Adams, was the man who phoned and ordered the honorable discharge?
Now sir, I don't recall Adam Paul. And Mr. Adams would have had no right to order an honorable discharge.
Let me just... Without going into detail the case came with a mechanism for question.
There had been an honorable discharge order. Or did I believe around January 1st he was given 90 days to accept.
When I talk about ordering the honorable discharge, I think the record should be correct to refer to the speeding up for the extra-diving of it.
The day after he appeared before our committee. Did you find out who did that?
You restate that hard, left for the lawyer, will they say?
The discharge was ordered as I recall sometime around January 1 of 1954.
It gave the commanding officer rather gave Mr. Perez 90 days to accept that honorable discharge.
He did not accept it until the day after I wrote you suggesting a court marshal in his case.
The question is who arranged for his honorable discharge.
After I had written that letter which was made public, in the meantime of the day before he got the honorable discharge.
Did you find out who that was responsible for that?
No, I didn't, Senator. And I expect that'll all be in Inspector Donald's report.
Are you interested in that number?
I've never seen them all phases of this thing to see how we can...
Are you interested in that?
Yeah.
You met the Center for Month, the Center for Honor, Center Dixon myself on February 24, is that right?
That's correct. That's correct. That's on the conversation we're talking about.
Yeah.
Did you, after you left that office, decide that you would have issued a report on Mr. Cohn, Mr. Char,
or my smith self, charges against him?
I did not.
Well, I'll have been written to Mr. Hensel's...
...versification of the fine money.
Keep in mind that Mr. Hensel, the test for Mr. Hensel, either help prepare or regard the preparation or something this...
...char.
He says, not until February 24, 1954, that I have any information.
But the Department of the Army has been having difficulty with Senator McCarthy Roy Cohn, or anyone else who respects a G-David Cheyenne.
Now, listen in the case, but after you had the meeting with...
...Sunday for months, months out, the other two senators.
Some of them, for the first time.
Talk to Mr. Hensel, to prepare the report.
Is that correct?
Well, have it, I'd like, from what you've discussed, of course, the Mr. Hensel had must have been correct.
But, then, did you order the report?
Prepare that for your left.
I did not.
Were you putting on a pass, or were you left for a conference, though?
Mr. Char, my name is Char.
I don't think there's varying of a conference between the Republicans as...
...white fair as the Democrats will be in the air.
I think...
...I've taken order to invite it to the issue, too.
You've really gone through all of them.
You don't belong these proceedings.
Inefinitely, if we're going into all of these family calls.
Mr. Char, I'm very interested in knowing, I think, is very important to know.
Why it is only after this conference with the Sunkers that Mr. Hensel's contacts have been told to prepare this report?
If yours to the moment, very important, very important, issue in the case.
Mr. Char, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, Mr. Char.
Mr. Char, the new attorney is reading from the document, and I must assume that he's reading that document correctly.
And that is...
...the statement made by Mr. Hensel in writing...
...that he did not know that there was a difficulty between the Army and the McCarthy Committee until February 24th.
Is that right, Senator? Is that what you read?
Yes, sir.
You're under the February 24th, Mr. Hensel.
Is your nothing you say in the affirmative?
Yes, sir.
Now, he has asked the secretary about a meeting on February 24th, which time the secretary was present.
And his question was whether or not the secretary determined as of that date or immediately the attempt to release this document making the charges against the McCarthy Committee, I think the division's added property.
I'm sure he's going to have to overload the final order, then, by Council to Mr. Hensel.
Mr. Hensel, I did not do any such thing.
What must we ask you this, Mr. Secretary?
Well, when did you first tell Mr. Hensel to prepare this report?
I never told Mr. Hensel to prepare this report.
Let me ask this, Mr. Chairman.
Is there evidence of this time a letter to Mr. Potter?
The Richardist state of Mr. Hensel either should provide it to prepare the report.
Is that in the record?
Chair, does not be told that there is no such letter?
There is no such letter.
Mr. Hensel, did not you letter to Potter from Hensel or someone saying Hensel prepared this?
There is a few, I assume, you are referring to the letter on which the secretary was present.
And I believe that if I'm not mistaken the letter was signed by a lay of officer.
Would you sign it or pass it or sign it or not?
I'm not certain.
Well, I wonder if we can add an error to that.
The file file is staying in perhaps exercise.
The letter in response to Senator Potter's letter of March 8, I believe it was,
transmitting a chronological statement to the defense, was signed by Mr. Hensel as counsel to the Department of Defense.
Thank you.
The letter was signed, you say, but Mr. Hensel?
That's correct.
We have a red order to the record.
Mr. Potter, I'm signed by Mr. Hensel.
We have a red order to the record, Mr. Chairman.
In order to Mr. Hensel to follow this, make sure this is the correct copy.
There is another powder in response to the request made near letter of March 8, 1954, for the secretary of defense.
I am in closing here with the chronological statement of the discussion with the private
David D. Shine, or G. David Shine, in the manner in which he was assigned and treated.
This chronological statement has been compiled under my supervision by examination of various files of the Army.
And after oral examination of the individual's mention were available to the man, assigned by me to prepare the document itself.
I believe this chronological statement will furnish the answer to three specific questions requested by you and all.
If you wish any further information, please call upon me.
My call attention again to the one line.
This statement has been compiled under my supervision, signed in the H.2, Hensel.
And now I have a statement letter stated March 10, 1944, 1954.
The date of the letter is published, the time is present, and Miss Kahnchen has expired.
Mr. Kahnchen, how do you identify the question?
Mr. K. K. One question.
You state today for your return from the war end.
You first learned of the Perez case.
That's correct. That's right. When was that mistake, Dave?
That was during the night of the 2nd and 3rd of February.
2nd, 3rd of February.
That's when did you request the instructor general to investigate the Perez case and give you a report on it within a few days after I returned?
Then you made that request early in February of the year.
That's right.
So that February, March and April, some three months have a last thing you made the request of the instructor general by a report on the Perez case.
Is that correct?
A little less than that, yes sir. A little less than three months back.
How long does it ordinarily take an instructor general to make an investigation and give you a report on it is comparable to the Perez case?
Well, first of all, I don't recall any comparable to the Perez case.
There way I can lay if it depends on the amount of tarot that has to be covered and the number of people that have to be interviewed.
Well, Mr. Stevens, in the interim have you ever requested the instructor general to be deposed investigation or to give you any report on it?
Well, I know that the inspector general knows of my interest in this case.
I've never spoken to him personally and told him to do anything except get this report for me as soon as he could do a good job on it.
Give me all the facts.
You're a contact him personally. A little less than three months ago.
I didn't contact him personally. I sent instructions that I wanted to have this report.
Well, all right. Same thing as I was in the conference. That's right.
And now that's been nearly three months. That's a good one. That's right.
What in the meantime have you received any interim report on it?
I've picked any partial report. I've picked up information from time to time.
Yes, about the Perez case. I have, Mr. Jenkins.
I have the inspector general given you any report. Now partial, or otherwise, no sir.
Have you requested him to make any report on it? Since your first message to him early in February.
No, I don't think I have. I wanted to have a complete wrapped up job done on it and things.
But you see, if I could explain for just a moment the number of people that would handle the papers in a case like this might run the very substantial numbers.
It might run to, might be very hard to realize that if I am.
And we're trying our best to get these names of the people that handle the papers which is what's done in the car of the ass before.
Where wasn't the investigation of the Perez case apparently a fairly simple matter?
Very no, complicated matter. Very complicated case.
I'd say that there was a big job to get all the facts together in regard to just how the Perez case was.
So for that reason, it has never occurred to you that the inspector general has been barely in his duty or at all.
No, no, no, no, no, no. When making use of investigation and giving you a room no sir.
Do you have any idea when you will get a report on the Perez case?
I think it could come at any time.
It's expected momentarily, anytime.
They need all probability before the termination of this case.
I would guess so.
Yes sir.
That's all Mr. Church. Very good. Any defenders at the right? Have any questions?
Any defenders at my left? Mr. Welsh?
None.
I have a right here, Mr. Cohen.
Here we suggest that after this next ten minute interval that we will be able to...
Leave for ten seconds now for station identification.
This is WABC New York's first station.
We've had another go around with questions or opportunities at any rate.
For members of the Investigating Committee to ask and questions, but they will all pass.
So we're back to Senator McArthur again, whose questioning secretary Steve's.
That this matter was brought to Mr. Hensel's attention.
Mr. Hensel's minutes of life I supervise the preparation report.
Do you think that is merely coincidence or was it because when you went back to the Pentagon...
Some of your people back there were very unhappy about this and decided to get out of report to then Mr. Cohen.
Got it, absolutely nothing to deal with it.
Well, if you ask me that when you went back to Pentagon, it's a fact that some of them were very unhappy...
With their agreement with your minutes of committee.
If so, they didn't say so to me.
Well, weren't you extremely disturbed yourself later that evening?
I was worried about it, yes sir.
But you know all your views during the agreement was to furnish us the names of those responsible...
In the press case to make them available to us apart.
I tried.
And why would you be so disturbed about that?
I was disturbed by Marley on account of the General's Wicker case...
Where General's Wicker had been abused.
And I was very anxious that Army witnesses whether in a out of uniform be not abused by you in the future.
But let's condition hasn't changed from time you left.
So, what do you think?
I think it's a very important thing to do.
But let's condition hasn't changed from time you left.
The meeting with us until the time you got to the Pentagon.
Otherwise, as far as the worker was concerned, his situation had not changed at all on the 24th.
Well, it changed to the extent that it was popularly considered by the press and others...
That I've forgotten all about General's Wicker and my fundamental principle of fighting to have my witnesses from the farm of the Army not abused and treated properly.
And I never gave that principle up and I don't know.
I think maybe there Mr. Secretary, you're putting your finger on the trouble.
You weren't disturbed about what you had agreed to do, but you were disturbed about the press set up of what you agreed to do.
I was disturbed because it wasn't more than that men around us too.
Well, are you held right to memorandum?
I was present.
And some very month bettered over to you very carefully.
Better than month's title.
Yes, and we spent a great deal of time looking over the memorandum, striking out of work here, adding one rear as my brain.
Striking some out of your suggestion.
There was a lot of discussion.
And we made some deletions of your suggestion.
I too made some deletions of your suggestion.
There were a lot of things I did suggest that you didn't put in.
All right, well now, the substance, the substance of the memorandum was that you agreed to give us the names of those responsible in the case of the system and the communists, and they would be called before the human being.
Beyond that, we didn't go that way in the agreement.
I'm wondering why you had been disturbed, so deeply disturbed that you had agreed to give us the key, the leadback to those who were responsible.
I was disturbed because of the fact that the abuse of witnesses was my fundamental problem that I was having with you at that time.
And it continued to be a problem.
And it just appeared from that memorandum that I had no apparently, I forgot all about that, which was not the case.
Accordingly, I spoke from the White House the next evening and already cleared a situation up on that point.
And you'll recall what you said about my statement right after I made it.
You said it was a complete falsehood.
Well, do you know what gets back to this, uh, the Robert's complaint?
You have, under 24th, in other words, that's the date Mr. Hemp will serve the person.
We're in about the charges.
You and Mr. Cohn, you're in the other side.
That was the date you left the meeting. You said you went to the Pentagon after that, did you?
That's right.
And when did you start to become unhappy about the agreements you made?
I was unhappy about it right from a conception.
You were unhappy when you said they're smiling, shaking my hand, well, if targets were to take my picture?
Unhappy.
Be very.
Right, then you get back to the Pentagon and get hell out of the way.
How old are there with the originator of that particular night?
The charges against Mr. Cohn.
I have no idea.
Did you talk to Hemp so at night?
I don't think I did.
Do you remember?
No, I'm pretty sure I did.
Did you talk to Mr. Adams?
At the matter of fact, uh, uh, I went back to the office and then, uh, I went home.
I don't think I saw anybody except some of my own staff, or a matter of afternoon, after I get back from this meeting.
You went from the meeting to the Pentagon?
That's my right.
Can you say you did not see Mr. Adams that late?
No, I didn't say I didn't see Mr. Adams.
Well, do you know what you did or not?
It's rather important, Mr. Secretary, to know how come on this particular night,
where I finally was conceived the idea for this smear campaign against my son.
I'd like to know who originated, who talked to him?
I, if it was originated, then which I, for any other time, which I very much doubt, I have no knowledge of it.
What do you think you were doing with it?
Did, did, did you see you had nothing to do with it?
Absolutely nothing to do with it.
Did you ever discuss with Adams the preparation of these charges?
Discuss what?
What that?
Did you ever discuss with Adams the preparation of these charges?
Of course I did discuss with Adams.
You discussed the preparation of the charges with Adams?
Mr. Hensel, without lying, how this, what this chronology was prepared under his supervision.
Transcript, Mr. Hensel, did you discuss with Mr. Adams the preparation of these charges?
Which charges you mean now?
The ones against Mr. Hensel, the Charm, Mr. Cohn and myself.
As far as I know, there was no discussion,
but 24th of February, or for a considerable period upon their after about any charges.
Right now, let's forget about the time in the last few generations.
But you've been asking me about 24th of February.
Let's, let's forget another question about it.
The question is, did you ever discuss with Mr. Adams the preparation of these charges?
Actually, the charges were prepared by council.
Or else it might be because even if you have not answered the question,
then I respectfully recall your attention to that fact.
His question is simple.
Did you ever discuss with Mr. Adams the preparation of these charges?
And I'm sure he means the release of March 11, 1954.
Did you ask this, Mr. Adams?
I tell you all I know about it, Mr. Jackson.
One of Mr. Hensel's men, that came to my office and asked me of what I knew about certain of these events.
And I told him.
And I can attribute it to the, to the preparation of this chronology of events,
to answer the Senate of Potter's letter by recalling and putting in whatever information I had on the subject.
But did you discuss it with Mr. Adams?
I'll tell him about the con.
I'm sure I wasn't the discuss of a measure.
I'm sure that you must have served.
Then he's your right hand.
Oh, he was the department councilor.
Yes, the age.
All right.
Very well.